Access Reviews | Expose group peer outlier insight and setting models (#17445)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/resources/membershipOutlierInsight.md

---
title: "membershipOutlierInsight resource type"

> description: "In the Azure AD access reviews, the membershipOutlierInsight resource represents insights provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier w.r.t other group members"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "In the Azure AD access reviews, the membershipOutlierInsight resource represents insights provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier in relation to other group members."
```

author: "shubhamguptacal"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "governance"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# membershipOutlierInsight resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

[!INCLUDE [accessreviews-disclaimer-v2](../../includes/accessreviews-disclaimer-v2.md)]

> Represents an insight provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier w.r.t to other group members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Represents an insight provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier in relation to other group members.
```

Inherits from [governanceInsight](governanceinsight.md).

> 

Reviewer: This API highly likely exposes some methods. Please investigate and document them

Author: At a high level, there’s no CRUD exposed for all three insight models – governanceInsight,userLastSignInsight and memberhipOutlierInsight. The way these models surface up is through the insight navigation property exposed on AccessReviewInstanceDecisionItem resource type : [accessReviewInstanceDecisionItem resource type - Microsoft Graph beta | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/accessreviewinstancedecisionitem?view=graph-rest-beta#relationships). Every accessReviewInstanceDecisionItem record has a collection of insights exposed through the “insights” navigation property. A developer can call the List Decisions API and pass in an expand clause for insights which will return a list of insights for all decision items. Here’s an example API call : 

GET /identityGovernance/accessReviews/definitions/{accessReviewScheduleDefinitionId}/instances/{accessReviewInstanceId}/decisions?$expand=insights
{
    "@odata.count": 1,
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "e6cafba0-cbf0-4748-8868-0810c7f4cc06",
            "accessReviewId": "6444d4fd-ab55-4608-8cf9-c6702d172bcc",
            "decision": "NotReviewed",
            "recommendation": "Approve",
            ....
            "insights": [
                {
                    "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.userSignInInsight",
                    "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
                    "insightCreatedDateTime": null,
                    "lastSignInDateTime": "2022-02-11T09:01:12Z"
                },
                {
                    "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.membershipOutlierInsight",
                    "id": "4e431ca4-df85-4d21-871f-77289959560e",
                    "insightCreatedDateTime": "2022-07-21T08:20:22Z",
                    "memberId": "53548fbc-bf77-48db-98e3-929a9c02197d",
                    "containerId": "98f41dad-68d5-42f6-a50f-ddd75c5c5539",
                    "outlierMemberType": "user",
                    "outlierContainerType": "group"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}

## Properties
| Property    | Type   | Description |
| :---------------| :---------- | :---------- |

> | memberId | String | Indicates the user Id of the member |
> | containerId | String | Indicates the id of the container(for ex: group Id) |
> | outlierContainerType | outlierContainerType | Indicates the type of container. For ex: group  |
> | outlierMemberType | outlierMemberType | Indicates the type of outlier member. For ex: user |

Reviewer: Additional fixes:
+ You're missing the two properties inherited from governanceInsight.
+ Properties should be documented in alphabetical order

```suggestion
| memberId | String | Indicates the identifier of the user. |
| containerId | String | Indicates the identifier of the container, for example, a group ID. |
| outlierContainerType | outlierContainerType | Indicates the type of container. The possible values are: `group`, `unknownFutureValue`. |
| outlierMemberType | outlierMemberType | Indicates the type of outlier member. The possible values are: `user`, `unknownFutureValue`. |
```

## Relationships
None.

## JSON representation

> The following is a JSON representation of the resource.
> <!-- {
>   "blockType": "resource",
>   "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.membershipOutlierInsight",
>   "baseType": "microsoft.graph.governanceInsight"
> }
> -->
> ``` json
> {
>   "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.membershipOutlierInsight",
>   "memberId": "String",
>   "containerId": "String",
>   "outlierContainerType": "String",
>   "outlierMemberType": "String",
> }

Reviewer: The stub generated JSON representation is complete as-is
```suggestion
The following is a JSON representation of the resource.
<!-- {
  "blockType": "resource",
  "keyProperty": "id",
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.membershipOutlierInsight",
  "baseType": "microsoft.graph.governanceInsight",
  "openType": false
}
-->
``` json
{
  "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.membershipOutlierInsight",
  "id": "String (identifier)",
  "insightCreatedDateTime": "String (timestamp)",
  "memberId": "String",
  "containerId": "String",
  "outlierContainerType": "String",
  "outlierMemberType": "String"
}
```
```

---
title: "membershipOutlierInsight resource type"
description: "In the Azure AD access reviews, the membershipOutlierInsight resource represents insights provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier in relation to other group members."
author: "shubhamguptacal"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "governance"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# membershipOutlierInsight resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

[!INCLUDE [accessreviews-disclaimer-v2](../../includes/accessreviews-disclaimer-v2.md)]

Represents an insight provided to reviewers based on whether a user is a peer outlier in relation to other group members.

Inherits from [governanceInsight](governanceinsight.md).

## Properties
| Property    | Type   | Description |
| :---------------| :---------- | :---------- |

> | memberId | String | Indicates the identifier of the user. |
> | containerId | String | Indicates the identifier of the container, for example, a group ID. |
> | outlierContainerType | outlierContainerType | Indicates the type of container. The possible values are: `group`, `unknownFutureValue`. |
> | outlierMemberType | outlierMemberType | Indicates the type of outlier member. The possible values are: `user`, `unknownFutureValue`. |

Reviewer: Let's indicate which ones support $filter. I've only found references for outlierContainerType and outlierMemberType . Pleaase fill the others if they support $filter.
```suggestion
| memberId | String | Indicates the identifier of the user. |
| containerId | String | Indicates the identifier of the container, for example, a group ID. |
| outlierContainerType | outlierContainerType | Indicates the type of container. The possible values are: `group`, `unknownFutureValue`. Supports `$filter` (`eq`). |
| outlierMemberType | outlierMemberType | Indicates the type of outlier member. The possible values are: `user`, `unknownFutureValue`. Supports `$filter` (`eq`). |
```

Author: Currently $filter is not supported for any of these properties
